docs/configuration.md, before:

# Looking Glass: Configuration Options

## Format

The *config.php* file is a piece of regular PHP source code. This means that
you need to follow the rules or the interface will not work.

You can mostly get something working by copying the example lines, just make
sure all your strings are quoted and your statements end in a semicolon (;).

All the default values for the configuration are defined in the
*includes/config.defaults.php* file. This file *must* not be edited. The
directives set in *config.php* will automatically override the default ones.

## Directives

These are the available configuration options. They can be set in *config.php*.
Values shown in this documentation are (for most of them) the default values
that are set if the configuration is not overriden.

### Frontpage

```php
$config['frontpage']['bootstrap_theme'] = true;
```
Uses the default Bootstrap theme if set to true.

```php
$config['frontpage']['custom_bootstrap_theme'] = false;
```
Defines the path to a custom Bootstrap theme. If set to false, disable the
custom Bootstrap theme.

```php
$config['frontpage']['css'] = 'css/style.css';
```
Defines the path to the CSS file to use.

```php
$config['frontpage']['title'] = 'Looking Glass';
```
Sets the title that should be displayed.

```php
$config['frontpage']['image'] = null;
```
Sets the image (logo) that should be displayed. If set to null no image will
be shown.

```php
$config['frontpage']['disclaimer'] = 'Disclaimer example';
```
Sets the disclaimer that should displayed. If set to null no disclaimer will
be shown.

```php
$config['frontpage']['show_title'] = true;
```
If set to true the previously defined title will be displayed.

```php
$config['frontpage']['show_visitor_ip'] = true;
```
Defines if the visitor IP address should be displayed.

```php
$config['frontpage']['order'] = array('routers', 'commands', 'parameters', 'buttons');
```
Sets the order of the sections that are displayed.

### Contact

```php
$config['contact']['name'] = 'Example Support';
```
Defines the contact name to be displayed. If set to null, no contact will be
displayed.

```php
$config['contact']['mail'] = 'support@example.com';
```
Defines the contact email to be displayed. If set to null, no contact will be
displayed.

### Routers

To define routers that can be used in the interface you need to fill the
"routers" array. The index of the router must be unique in this example it
will be "router1".There are some pretty generic things to define:

```php
$config['routers']['router1']['host'] = 'r1.example.net';
```
This defines the FQDN of the router to use. It can also be an IP address.

```php
$config['routers']['router1']['desc'] = 'Example Router 1';
```
This defines what will be displayed in the interface for the router.

You need to define the type of the router so the looking glass knows how to
interact with it.

```php
$config['routers']['router1']['type'] = 'juniper';
```
The router type can be Juniper, Cisco, Quagga or BIRD. You can take a look at
the specific documentation for your router.

It is also highly recommended to specify a source interface ID to be used by
the router when it will try to ping or traceroute a destination. This is done
with:

```php
$config['routers']['router1']['source-interface-id'] = 'lo0';
```
for Cisco and Juniper routers (change lo0 with your interface), and with:
```php
$config['routers']['router1']['source-interface-id'] = '192.168.1.1';
```
for BIRD and Quagga routers (use your own IP address).

After that you need to set the authentication information for the looking
glass to be able to log into the router. For this you select a type of
authentication and then supply the needed information.

#### Telnet

```php
$config['routers']['router1']['user'] = 'readonlyuser';
$config['routers']['router1']['pass'] = 'readonlypassword';
$config['routers']['router1']['auth'] = 'telnet';
```
Not tested, considered as unstable and moreover it is not secure. So it is to
be avoided.

#### SSH with Password

```php
$config['routers']['router1']['user'] = 'readonlyuser';
$config['routers']['router1']['pass'] = 'readonlypassword';
$config['routers']['router1']['auth'] = 'ssh-password';
```

#### SSH with Key

```php
$config['routers']['router1']['user'] = 'readonlyuser';
$config['routers']['router1']['private_key'] = '/home/user/.ssh/key';
$config['routers']['router1']['pass'] = 'mypassphrase';
$config['routers']['router1']['auth'] = 'ssh-key';
```
The passphrase option is not needed if the key is not passphrase protected.

### Logs

```php
$config['logs']['file'] = '/var/log/looking-glass.log';
```
Defines the file where each request on the looking glass will be logged.

```php
$config['logs']['format'] = '[%D] [client: %R] %H > %C';
```
Defines the format for each log (%D is for the time, %R is for the requester
IP address, %H is for the host and %C is for the command).

### Filters

```php
$config['filters'][] = '/(client1|client2)/';
$config['filters'][] = '/^NotToShow/';
```
Defines filters to eliminate some lines from the output. Do not define any
filters if there is no nothing to filter.

### Misc.

```php
$config['misc']['allow_private_asn'] = false;
```
If set to true, allows the use of private AS numbers.

```php
$config['misc']['allow_private_ip'] = true;
```
If set to true, allows the use of RFC1918 IPv4 and FD/FC IPv6 as parameters.

```php
$config['misc']['allow_reserved_ip'] = true;
```
If set to true, allows reserved the use of IPv4 addresses (0.0.0.0/8,
169.254.0.0/16, 192.0.2.0/24 and 224.0.0.0/4) as parameters.

### Documentation

The documentation configuration should probably not be modified but here
are the tweakable options used to define them.

There are 5 available commands and so there are documentation for each one of
them.

```php
$config['doc']['bgp']
$config['doc']['as-path-regex']
$config['doc']['as']
$config['doc']['ping']
$config['doc']['traceroute']
```

Each commands have a subset of options to configure the its title, its
description summary and its detailed description. For example:

```php
$config['doc']['bgp']['command'] = '';
$config['doc']['bgp']['description'] = '';
$config['doc']['bgp']['parameter'] = '';
```

See the defaults values for more details.

Commit message:

Improve 'source-interface-id' option.
On software router, an IPv4 and IPv6 addresses need to be specified.
Not specifying one of them or both will result in the router trying
to use the best address to contact the destination.

This fix the bug where software routers could not ping or traceroute
IPv6 destination with only a IPv4 source address (obviously).

docs/configuration.md, after:

# Looking Glass: Configuration Options

## Format

The *config.php* file is a piece of regular PHP source code. This means that
you need to follow the rules or the interface will not work.

You can mostly get something working by copying the example lines, just make
sure all your strings are quoted and your statements end in a semicolon (;).

All the default values for the configuration are defined in the
*includes/config.defaults.php* file. This file *must* not be edited. The
directives set in *config.php* will automatically override the default ones.

## Directives

These are the available configuration options. They can be set in *config.php*.
Values shown in this documentation are (for most of them) the default values
that are set if the configuration is not overriden.

### Frontpage

```php
$config['frontpage']['bootstrap_theme'] = true;
```
Uses the default Bootstrap theme if set to true.

```php
$config['frontpage']['custom_bootstrap_theme'] = false;
```
Defines the path to a custom Bootstrap theme. If set to false, disable the
custom Bootstrap theme.

```php
$config['frontpage']['css'] = 'css/style.css';
```
Defines the path to the CSS file to use.

```php
$config['frontpage']['title'] = 'Looking Glass';
```
Sets the title that should be displayed.

```php
$config['frontpage']['image'] = null;
```
Sets the image (logo) that should be displayed. If set to null no image will
be shown.

```php
$config['frontpage']['disclaimer'] = 'Disclaimer example';
```
Sets the disclaimer that should displayed. If set to null no disclaimer will
be shown.

```php
$config['frontpage']['show_title'] = true;
```
If set to true the previously defined title will be displayed.

```php
$config['frontpage']['show_visitor_ip'] = true;
```
Defines if the visitor IP address should be displayed.

```php
$config['frontpage']['order'] = array('routers', 'commands', 'parameters', 'buttons');
```
Sets the order of the sections that are displayed.

### Contact

```php
$config['contact']['name'] = 'Example Support';
```
Defines the contact name to be displayed. If set to null, no contact will be
displayed.

```php
$config['contact']['mail'] = 'support@example.com';
```
Defines the contact email to be displayed. If set to null, no contact will be
displayed.

### Routers

To define routers that can be used in the interface you need to fill the
"routers" array. The index of the router must be unique in this example it
will be "router1".There are some pretty generic things to define:

```php
$config['routers']['router1']['host'] = 'r1.example.net';
```
This defines the FQDN of the router to use. It can also be an IP address.

```php
$config['routers']['router1']['desc'] = 'Example Router 1';
```
This defines what will be displayed in the interface for the router.

You need to define the type of the router so the looking glass knows how to
interact with it.

```php
$config['routers']['router1']['type'] = 'juniper';
```
The router type can be Juniper, Cisco, Quagga or BIRD. You can take a look at
the specific documentation for your router.

It is also highly recommended to specify a source interface ID to be used by
the router when it will try to ping or traceroute a destination. This is done
with:

```php
$config['routers']['router1']['source-interface-id'] = 'lo0';
```
for Cisco and Juniper routers (change lo0 with your interface), and with:
```php
$config['routers']['router1']['source-interface-id']['ipv4'] = '192.168.1.1';
$config['routers']['router1']['source-interface-id']['ipv6'] = '2001:db8::1';
```
for BIRD and Quagga routers (use your own IP addresses). Omitting the IPv4 or
the IPv6 version of the source address will result in the router trying to use
the best IP address to contact the destination.

After that you need to set the authentication information for the looking
glass to be able to log into the router. For this you select a type of
authentication and then supply the needed information.

#### Telnet

```php
$config['routers']['router1']['user'] = 'readonlyuser';
$config['routers']['router1']['pass'] = 'readonlypassword';
$config['routers']['router1']['auth'] = 'telnet';
```
Not tested, considered as unstable and moreover it is not secure. So it is to
be avoided.

#### SSH with Password

```php
$config['routers']['router1']['user'] = 'readonlyuser';
$config['routers']['router1']['pass'] = 'readonlypassword';
$config['routers']['router1']['auth'] = 'ssh-password';
```

#### SSH with Key

```php
$config['routers']['router1']['user'] = 'readonlyuser';
$config['routers']['router1']['private_key'] = '/home/user/.ssh/key';
$config['routers']['router1']['pass'] = 'mypassphrase';
$config['routers']['router1']['auth'] = 'ssh-key';
```
The passphrase option is not needed if the key is not passphrase protected.

### Logs

```php
$config['logs']['file'] = '/var/log/looking-glass.log';
```
Defines the file where each request on the looking glass will be logged.

```php
$config['logs']['format'] = '[%D] [client: %R] %H > %C';
```
Defines the format for each log (%D is for the time, %R is for the requester
IP address, %H is for the host and %C is for the command).

### Filters

```php
$config['filters'][] = '/(client1|client2)/';
$config['filters'][] = '/^NotToShow/';
```
Defines filters to eliminate some lines from the output. Do not define any
filters if there is no nothing to filter.

### Misc.

```php
$config['misc']['allow_private_asn'] = false;
```
If set to true, allows the use of private AS numbers.

```php
$config['misc']['allow_private_ip'] = true;
```
If set to true, allows the use of RFC1918 IPv4 and FD/FC IPv6 as parameters.

```php
$config['misc']['allow_reserved_ip'] = true;
```
If set to true, allows reserved the use of IPv4 addresses (0.0.0.0/8,
169.254.0.0/16, 192.0.2.0/24 and 224.0.0.0/4) as parameters.

### Documentation

The documentation configuration should probably not be modified but here
are the tweakable options used to define them.

There are 5 available commands and so there are documentation for each one of
them.

```php
$config['doc']['bgp']
$config['doc']['as-path-regex']
$config['doc']['as']
$config['doc']['ping']
$config['doc']['traceroute']
```

Each commands have a subset of options to configure the its title, its
description summary and its detailed description. For example:

```php
$config['doc']['bgp']['command'] = '';
$config['doc']['bgp']['description'] = '';
$config['doc']['bgp']['parameter'] = '';
```

See the defaults values for more details.
